[IMP] inventory: update differences doc (#5495)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/inventory_and_mrp/inventory/management/lots_serial_numbers/differences.rst

What's the difference between lots and serial numbers?
======================================================

*Lots* and *serial numbers* are the two ways to identify and track products in Odoo. While there are
similarities between the two traceability methods, there are also notable differences that affect
receipts, deliveries, and inventory reports.

A lot usually indicates a specific batch of an item that was received, is currently stored, or was
shipped from a warehouse, but can also pertain to a batch of products manufactured in-house, as
well.

A serial number is a unique identifier assigned incrementally (or sequentially) to an item or
product, used to distinguish it from other items and products.

.. seealso::

>    - :doc:`/applications/inventory_and_mrp/inventory/management/lots_serial_numbers/lots`
>    - :doc:`/applications/inventory_and_mrp/inventory/management/lots_serial_numbers/serial_numbers`

Reviewer: Add link text to the link (:
an [example](https://www.odoo.com/documentation/16.0/contributing/documentation/rst_cheat_sheet.html#documentation-pages-hyperlinks)

In the link i sent u, the link text `example` hides the long link, https://www.odoo.com/documentation/16.0/contributing/documentation/rst_cheat_sheet.html#documentation-pages-hyperlinks , using the `doc` tag (:
```suggestion
   - :doc:`Lots </applications/inventory_and_mrp/inventory/management/lots_serial_numbers/lots>`
   - :doc:`Serial numbers </applications/inventory_and_mrp/inventory/management/lots_serial_numbers/serial_numbers>`
```

Enable lots & serial numbers
============================

To track products using lots and serial numbers, the *Lots & Serial Numbers* feature must be
enabled. Go to the :menuselection:`Inventory app --> Configuration --> Settings`, scroll down to the
:guilabel:`Traceability` section, and click the box next to :guilabel:`Lots & Serial Numbers`. Then,
click the :guilabel:`Save` button to save changes.

.. image:: differences/differences-enabled-setting.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Enabled lots and serial numbers feature in inventory settings.

When to use lots
================

Lots are useful for products that are manufactured or received in large quantities (such as clothes
or food), and can be used to trace a product back to a group. This is especially useful when
managing product recalls or expiration dates.

.. image:: differences/differences-lot.png
   :align: center

>    :alt: Created lot with quantity of products in it.

Reviewer: What do you think about putting this in an example block? Also how did you navigate to this page? If the instructions are included in another doc, maybe we can link that instead!

Manufacturers assign lot numbers to groups of products that have common properties; this can lead to
multiple goods sharing the same lot number. This helps to identify a number of products in a single
group, and allows for end-to-end traceability of these products through each step in their
life cycles.

When to use serial numbers
==========================

The goal of assigning serial numbers to individual products is to make sure that every item's
history is identifiable when it travels through the supply chain. This can be especially useful for
manufacturers that provide after-sales services to products that they sell and deliver.

.. image:: differences/differences-serial-numbers.png
   :align: center
   :alt: List of serial numbers for product.

> Serial numbers can consist of many different types of characters: they can be strictly numerical,
> they can contain letters and other typographical symbols, or they can be a mix of all of the above.

Reviewer: Optional suggestion on brevity (:
```suggestion
Serial numbers can consist of many different types of characters: strictly numerical, contain letters and other typographical symbols, or a mix of all of the above.
```

> What's the difference between lots and serial numbers?
> ======================================================

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Difference between lots and serial numbers
==========================================
```

*Lots* and *serial numbers* are the two ways to identify and track products in Odoo. While there are
similarities between the two traceability methods, there are also notable differences that affect
receipts, deliveries, and inventory reports.

> A lot usually indicates a specific batch of an item that was received, is currently stored, or was
> shipped from a warehouse, but can also pertain to a batch of products manufactured in-house, as
> well.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A *lot* usually indicates a specific batch of an item that was received, is currently stored, or was
shipped from a warehouse. However, it can also pertain to a batch of products manufactured in-house,
as well.
```

> A serial number is a unique identifier assigned incrementally (or sequentially) to an item or
> product, used to distinguish it from other items and products.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A *serial number* is a unique identifier assigned incrementally (or sequentially) to an item or
product, used to distinguish it from other items or products.
```

.. seealso::
   - :doc:`/applications/inventory_and_mrp/inventory/management/lots_serial_numbers/lots`
   - :doc:`/applications/inventory_and_mrp/inventory/management/lots_serial_numbers/serial_numbers`

Enable lots & serial numbers
============================

To track products using lots and serial numbers, the *Lots & Serial Numbers* feature must be

> enabled. Go to the :menuselection:`Inventory app --> Configuration --> Settings`, scroll down to the
> :guilabel:`Traceability` section, and click the box next to :guilabel:`Lots & Serial Numbers`. Then,
> click the :guilabel:`Save` button to save changes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
enabled.

To do that, go to the :menuselection:`Inventory app --> Configuration --> Settings`, scroll down to
the :guilabel:`Traceability` section, and click the box next to :guilabel:`Lots & Serial Numbers`.
Then, click the :guilabel:`Save` button to save changes.
```

.. image:: differences/differences-enabled-setting.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Enabled lots and serial numbers feature in inventory settings.

When to use lots
================

> Lots are useful for products that are manufactured or received in large quantities (such as clothes
> or food), and can be used to trace a product back to a group. This is especially useful when
> managing product recalls or expiration dates.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Lots are useful for products that are manufactured or received in large quantities (such as, clothes
or food). Lots can be used to trace a product back to a group, which is especially useful when
managing product recalls or expiration dates.
```

.. example::
   .. image:: differences/differences-lot.png
      :align: center
      :alt: Created lot with quantity of products in it.

> Manufacturers assign lot numbers to groups of products that have common properties; this can lead to
> multiple goods sharing the same lot number. This helps to identify a number of products in a single
> group, and allows for end-to-end traceability of these products through each step in their
> life cycles.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Manufacturers assign lot numbers to groups of products that have common properties, which can lead
to multiple goods sharing the same lot number. This helps identify a number of products in a single
group, and allows for end-to-end traceability of products through each step in their life cycles.
```

When to use serial numbers
==========================

> The goal of assigning serial numbers to individual products is to make sure that every item's
> history is identifiable when it travels through the supply chain. This can be especially useful for
> manufacturers that provide after-sales services to products that they sell and deliver.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The goal of assigning serial numbers to individual products is to make sure every item's history is
identifiable when it travels through the supply chain. This can be especially useful for
manufacturers that provide after-sales services related to products they sell and deliver.
```

.. example::
   .. image:: differences/differences-serial-numbers.png
      :align: center
      :alt: List of serial numbers for product.

> Serial numbers can consist of many different types of characters: they can be strictly numerical,
> they can contain letters and other typographical symbols, or they can be a mix of all of the above.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Serial numbers can contain different character types: numbers, letters, typographical symbols, or a
mixture of all three types.
```

Traceability
============

> Manufacturers and companies can refer to the traceability reports to see the entire life cycle of a
> product: where it came from (and when), where it was stored, and who it went to.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Manufacturers and companies can refer to Traceability Reports to see the entire life cycle of a
product. These reports include vital information, like where it came from (and when), where it was
stored, and to whom it was sent.

```

> To see the full traceability of a product, or group by lots and/or serial numbers, go to
> :menuselection:`Inventory app --> Products --> Lots/Serial Numbers`. Doing so reveals the
> :guilabel:`Lots/Serial Numbers` dashboard.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To see the full traceability of a product, or group products by lots and/or serial numbers, go to
:menuselection:`Inventory app --> Products --> Lots/Serial Numbers`. Doing so reveals the
:guilabel:`Lots/Serial Numbers` dashboard.
```

> From here, products with lots or serial numbers assigned to them will be listed by default, and can
> be expanded to show what lots or serial numbers have been specifically assigned to them.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
From here, products with lots or serial numbers assigned to them are listed, by default. They can
also be expanded to show what lots or serial numbers have been specifically assigned to them.
```

To group by lots or serial numbers, first remove any default filters from the search bar in the
upper-right corner. Then, click :guilabel:`Group By`, and select :guilabel:`Add Custom Group`, which
reveals a mini drop-down menu. From this mini drop-down menu, select :guilabel:`Lot/Serial Number`,
and click :guilabel:`Apply`.

> Doing so reveals all existing lots and serial numbers, and can be expanded to show all quantities of
> products with that assigned number. For unique serial numbers that are not reused, there should be
> just one product per serial number.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Doing so reveals all existing lots and serial numbers, and each can be expanded to show all product
quantities with that assigned number. For unique serial numbers that are *not* reused, there should
*only* be one product per serial number.
```

.. image:: differences/differences-tracking.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Reporting page with drop-down lists of lots and serial numbers.

.. tip::

>    For additional information regarding an individual lot number or serial number, click the line
>    item for the lot or serial number to reveal that specific number's :guilabel:`Lot` or
>    :guilabel:`Serial Number` form. From this form, click the :guilabel:`Location` and
>    :guilabel:`Traceability` smart buttons to see all stock on-hand using that serial number, and any
>    operations made using that lot or serial number.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   For additional information regarding an individual lot or serial number, click the line item for
   the lot or serial number to reveal that specific number's :guilabel:`Lot` or :guilabel:`Serial
   Number` form.
   
   From this form, click the :guilabel:`Location` and :guilabel:`Traceability` smart buttons to see
   all stock on-hand using that serial number. Any operations made using that lot or serial number
   can be found here, as well.
```
